---
title: An Ode to Portland
date: 2014-02-18 00:40:03.000000000 -08:00
categories:
- life
- food
- oregon
- portland
permalink: "/2014/02/18/an-ode-to-portland/"
---

As I get ready to say goodbye to Portland, I wanted to recollect the
things that I love about this city where I've lived for the past 3
years. To begin with, I can't say that I ever actually liked Portland.
Even before I moved here, I felt like it was only going to be temporary
and that feeling never changed in all the time here. What has changed is
that I've come to know Portland as a very quirky, fun and naturally
stunning city instead of the hippy town that I was led to believe.

Just this week, I saw an
[article](http://www.movoto.com/blog/top-ten/best-cities-in-america-2013/?fb_action_ids=857978512751&fb_action_types=og.likes&fb_ref=.Ur8alZQsg6A.like&fb_source=feed_opengraph&action_object_map=%7B%22857978512751%22%3A493021110816240%7D&action_type_map=%7B%22857978512751%22%3A%22og.likes%22%7D&action_ref_map=%7B%22857978512751%22%3A%22.Ur8alZQsg6A.like%22%7D "article")that
rated Portland as the \#1 best place to live. I'm not sure that I agree
with a \#1 rating, but they do bring up a lot of good things about
Portland esp. the food. The food here is absolutely amazing. I've tried
more ethnic foods in 3 years in Portland than in all my time in Texas.
Part of the reason might be that I'm no longer a broke college student
but Portland offers so much more options in terms of cuisine. When I was
in Texas, the options were more or less BBQ and Tex-mex although that's
changing for the better. And there's a lack of chain restaurants in
Portland which is a really good thing. Almost all the places are local
mom n pop shops and the food tastes absolutely authentic that you really
believe this must be what they make at home. They don't try to cater the
food to the audience's palate which was a refreshing change coming from
Texas. [Gyro House](http://www.thegyrohouse.com/ "Gyro House") and [Salt
n Straw](http://saltandstraw.com/ "Salt n Straw") are two places that
I'll definitely miss about Portland:( but here's a quite incomplete list
of some more places you should definitely go if you ever find yourself
in Portland: [bete lukas](http://bete-lukas.com/ "bete lukas"), [screen
door](http://screendoorrestaurant.com/ "screen door"),
[mother's](http://www.mothersbistro.com/ "mother's"), [tasty n
sons](http://tastyntasty.com/sons/ "tasty n sons"),
[nicholas](http://nicholasrestaurant.com/ "nicholas"), [pine state
biscuits](http://www.pinestatebiscuits.com/ "pine state biscuits").

When I was first driving through Oregon, I got a bit frustrated that the
drivers were going so slow. Virtually no one was speeding and even then
at most 5 miles over. I've then had this conversation with many people
in Oregon and they all agree that Oregonians just generally drive slow.
5 under seems to be the general speed whereas in most other places,
traffic is going at 5 over speed limit. Its not that they are trying to
be extra cautious or anything because of the rain or coz the roads are
wet. I think its because they ain't got anywhere they need to be by
speeding. They are just driving slow and taking in the sights. If ever
there were a people that stopped and smelled the roses, then these are
it. The laid back attitude was a bit unnerving at first but you'll start
to enjoy it too. There is an openness of mind and acceptance of every
idiosyncrasy that's quite refreshing.

The other thing I noticed is that most everyone is in pretty good shape
physically and the urge to be physically active is contagious. You move
here and in a few months, you'll be starting some regular physical
activity guaranteed. Â After moving here, I started hiking, rode a bike
to work couple of times, climbed an actual mountain, went fishing,
freshwater rafting, snowshoeing, snowboarding, skydiving..its truly
amazing the things I've gotten the chance to do since moving here. I
would've never imagined doing half of these things in my lifetime. I
went skydiving within two months of moving here. I think the natural
beauty of Oregon just invites you to be outdoors and just do something
even if its simply to go for a run.

There are two things that I will absolutely miss about Portland: chicken
gyros from Gyro House and the friends that I made here. There is no
better. In the end though, I never quite felt at home in Portland. There
was something missing. Part of the reason might be that I didn't have
any family here. Maybe I couldn't get used to the weather when I've
lived all my life in fairly warm climates. Or maybe its just fate
because even though there are so many individual pieces that I like
about Portland, I never liked the whole when you put it all together and
I'm not quite sure why. There was some feng shui missing. But I do know
that Portland certainly deserves to be on that best places to live list.
